sql-plan-replayer: add sql-plan-replayer doc (#6759)
pingcap/docs: sql-plan-replayer.md

---
title: Use PLAN REPLAYER to Save and Restore the On-Site Information of a Cluster

> summary: Learn how to use PLAN REPLAYER to save and restore the on-site information of a cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: Learn how to use PLAN REPLAYER to save and restore the on-site information of a cluster.
```

---

# Use PLAN REPLAYER to Save and Restore the On-Site Information of a Cluster

> When you locate and troubleshoot the issues of a TiDB cluster, you often need to provide information on the system and the execution plan. To help you get the information and troubleshoot cluster issues in a more convenient and efficient way, the `PLAN REPLAY` command is introduced in TiDB v5.3.0. This command enables you to easily save and restore the on-site information of a cluster, improves the efficiency of troubleshooting, and helps you more easily archive the issue for management.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you locate and troubleshoot the issues of a TiDB cluster, you often need to provide information on the system and the execution plan. To help you get the information and troubleshoot cluster issues in a more convenient and efficient way, the `PLAN REPLAY` command is introduced in TiDB v5.3.0. This command enables you to easily save and restore the information about on-site issues, improves the efficiency of the execution plan that diagnoses issues, and helps you more easily archive and manage the issues.
```

The features of `PLAN REPLAYER` are as follows:

- Exports the information of a TiDB cluster at an on-site troubleshooting to a ZIP-formatted file for storage.

> - Imports into a cluster the ZIP-formatted file exported from another TiDB cluster. This file contains the information of the latter TiDB cluster at an on-site troubleshooting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Imports into a cluster a ZIP-formatted file exported from another TiDB cluster. This file contains the information of the latter TiDB cluster at an on-site troubleshooting.
```

+------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Dump_link                                                        |
+------------------------------------------------------------------+
| replayer_single_JOGvpu4t7dssySqJfTtS4A==_1635750890568691080.zip |
+------------------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.015 sec)
```

Because the file cannot be downloaded on MySQL Client, you need to use the TiDB HTTP interface and the file identifier to download the file:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
http://${tidb-server-ip}:${tidb-server-status-port}/plan_replayer/dump/${file_token}
```

`${tidb-server-ip}:${tidb-server-status-port}` is the address of any TiDB server in the cluster. For example:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
curl http://127.0.0.1:10080/plan_replayer/dump/replayer_single_JOGvpu4t7dssySqJfTtS4A==_1635750890568691080.zip > plan_replayer.zip
```

## Use `PLAN REPLAYER` to import cluster information

> **Warning:**
>
> When you import the on-site information of a TiDB cluster to another cluster, the TiDB session variables, SQL bindings, table schemas and statistics of the latter cluster are modified.

> With an existing `ZIP` file exported using `PLAN REPLAYER`, you can use the `PLAN REPLAYER` import interface to restore the on-site information of a cluster to any other TiDB cluster. The syntax is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With an existing `ZIP` file exported using `PLAN REPLAYER`, you can use the `PLAN REPLAYER` import interface to restore the on-site information of a cluster to any other TiDB clusters. The syntax is as follows:
```
